docs: Describe how time() is set to start at 0 in unit tests (#15125)
prometheus/prometheus: docs/configuration/unit_testing_rules.md

./promtool test rules test1.yml test2.yml test3.yml
```

> ## Time within tests

Reviewer: This section references `alert_test_case`, etc so it should go further down, as there's no reason for it to be before the things it references. I'd put it just before `Example`.

Author: I've pushed a commit that moves the section at the end of the file, in the Example section.

It should be noted that in all tests, either in `alert_test_case` or
`promql_test_case`, the output from all functions related to the current time,

> for exemple the `time()` `day_of_*()` functions, will output a consistent value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for example the `time()` and `day_of_*()` functions, will output a consistent value
```

for tests.

> At the start of the test evaluation, `time()` outputs 0 and will thus have a

Reviewer: `thus` reads strangely here, something like:

```suggestion
At the start of the test evaluation, `time()` returns 0 and therefore when under test
`time()` will return a value of `0 + eval_time`.
```

value at evaluation time of `0 + eval_time`.

If you need to write tests for alerts that use functions relating to the current

> time, make sure that the values given to your `input_series` is placed far

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time, make sure that the values given to your `input_series` are placed far
```

`promql_test_case`, the output from all functions related to the current time,
for example the `time()` and `day_of_*()` functions, will output a consistent value
for tests.

At the start of the test evaluation, `time()` returns 0 and therefore when under test
`time()` will return a value of `0 + eval_time`.

If you need to write tests for alerts that use functions relating to the current
time, make sure that the values given to your `input_series` are placed far
enough in the past, relative to the evaluation time described above. The values
can for example be negative timestamps so that with a very small `eval_time` the
alert can be expected to trigger.

Another method that's known to work is to instead bump `eval_time` in the future
so that the timestamp output by `time()` will be a higher value and the values
in `input_series` will be far enough apart from that point in time so that the
alerts will trigger. This method has the downside of making promtool generate a
timeseries database that contains a value for each `input_series` for each
`interval` for the given test. This can become very slow relatively easily and

> can end up consuming a lot of RAM for running your test. By instead using values

Reviewer 2: Is it really "known to work" if these are the consequences?

Author: that's a fair question. I've used this technique first but pushing the eval_time 2 days and then 65 days and keeping the input_series values at 0, and it did work. but already with `eval_time = 65d` the test was taking around 10~15s to run, so I'd imagine that pushing much further would render promtool kinda useless.

so we could play around with the wording in the document. it does but maybe only for relatevely small values

Author: @bboreham Maybe we could turn this first sentence upside down and rather say something like the following:

> One's intuition could be to push `eval_time` into the future so that the timestamp returned by `time()` looks more like a realistic timestamp, but it is strongly recommended against since doing so quickly has some serious performance implications. [...rest of paragraphs]

what do you think?

        summary: "Instance {{ $labels.instance }} down"
        description: "{{ $labels.instance }} of job {{ $labels.job }} has been down for more than 5 minutes."
```

### Time within tests

It should be noted that in all tests, either in `alert_test_case` or
`promql_test_case`, the output from all functions related to the current time,
for example the `time()` and `day_of_*()` functions, will output a consistent value
for tests.

At the start of the test evaluation, `time()` returns 0 and therefore when under test

> `time()` will return a value of `0 + eval_time` value at evaluation time of `0 +

Reviewer: Something strange happens with the suggestion here

Author: hmm yeah it reads weird. there was a full stop that got inserted by your earlier suggestion but the next sentence started with just `value at evaluation time` so I removed the full stop. but it feels like a jumping disk is repeating things. I'm guessing it might slipped in because the suggestion was only touching one line and not removing the rest of the sentence. I'll fix that up just now.
